---
layout: post
title: Lith Printing
---

Having read Tim Rudman's article on lith printing, and seen the author's
images, I had to try it.

The main difference between regular processes and lith is that, whereas in
normal B&W development the developer becomes exhausted sooner in the blacks,
giving the midtones and highlights a chance to come out, lith accelerates into
a kind of chain reaction in the shadows; the more the developer has to work,
the more exicted it gets, and the faster the darks come out. It's nice to work
with a process that's simple and yet completely backwards from what you have
been practicing.

To develop a lith print, then, you have to give the highlights a fighting
chance to catch up with the rapidly developing blacks. You do this on two
fronts. First, you overexpose the print by two or three stops (do a regular
test print to find out and then go from there). Second, you use a highly
diluted developer to slow things down. Bonus points for re-using nearly spent
developer from the day before (“old brown”) as, say, a quarter of your
developer.

Don't bother setting your timer for two minutes. Put on some music and relax.
Watch the print develop under normal safelight, and when it's ready (and it
could be 15 or 20 minutes), *quickly* snatch it out and drop it in the stop.
People say this process is repeatable, but I don't see how. The developer gets
exhausted so quickly, and it's hard to know what the real potential of your
"old brown" portion is. (And I really do recommend re-using some old brown; I
don't know what's going on, but you'll see the difference right away.)

The results are shimmering and glistening highlights with crushed blacks. It's
contrasty, but it glows like it's on fire.

![SF street; lith print](/assets/lith-sf.jpg)

I'm using Fotospeed LD20 lith developer and Fomatone 131 glossy paper. If you
get into this, you'll quickly find yourself obsessing over papers. They all
behave differently. There are some awesome Foma papers. Ilford work fine. The
glory days of Kodak lith papers are long gone. I can only read about them and
envy people who have some of that paper in their fridges.

Otherwise, these are normal photographs. Normally exposed on 400TX, developed
in XTol diluted 1:3.

![Oaxaca washing pools; lith print](/assets/lith-oaxaca.jpg)

Above, toned in gold chloride to bring out some blues.

